# Data Generation App

This application is designed to generate large amounts of csv data.

## parseArgs

This program generates a pre defined table that will be used by MakeCSV to generate a bunch of random csv data

#### Usage

`parseArgs <table name> <arguments>`

There are several different type of arguments used to greate the data

- **varchar** `-v <length>` legnth 1 to n.
- **integer** `-i <length>` lengtth 0 will auto increment starting form 1. A fixed lenth will generate a random number with that many digits _e.g. 2 will generate a number 10-99_
- **date** `-d` will generate a random date in the format DD/MM/YYYY
- **time** `-t` will generate a random time
- **file** `-f <path to file> <column to choose the data from>` will take data from a specified column of another csv file and insert it into this column. This is used in instances of foreign keys.
- **double** `-o <length> <delimiter position>` will generate a dounle with the length and position of the delimiter.
- **sequential int** `-I <staring number>` will generate a sequential integer for each line
- **sequntial varchar** `-V <length>` will generate sequential varchar character for each line. Starting with _AAAA, AAAB, AAAC, ... , zzzz_. This will be done based on the ascii value of the letters.
- **sequential file** `-F <path to file> <column to choose from>` Will take data from the file starting from the top of the file untill the end. It will loop if the end is reached.
- **timestamp** `-T` Adds a timestamp value in the fromat YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS.
- **Hexadecimal Value** `-h <length>` will generate a hexademimal value of length _length_. e.g. length 5 will could create _F86A1_.
- **email** `-e` will generate a fake email using random character with one @ followed by one .
- **bool** `-b` will generate a random integer boolean 0 or 1.

_Note:_ Sequential data type are a good use when generating unique data or when you want to ensure that every case in a file is used at least once.

## MakeCSV

This program will generate lines of CSV data in the pattern layed in a table file that is generated by parseAegs.

usage `java MakeCSV <n-lines> <path/to/table/file> <optional, output name>`

_Both parseArgs & MakeCSV were created by Dolf ten Have for Compx323-25A_

The header of the table file has the following structure:<br />
`<num rows> <num fileRefs> <num seq varchars> <max seq varchar len> <num seq fileRefs>`

### genTable structure:

```
+-------------+-------+---+------------------------+---------------+
|    Type     | index | 0 |           1            |       2       |
+-------------+-------+---+------------------------+---------------+
| varchar     |     0 | 0 | length                 |               |
| int         |     1 | 1 | length                 |               |
| date        |     2 | 2 |                        |               |
| time        |     3 | 3 |                        |               |
| file        |     4 | 4 | index in 'files' array | col of data   |
| double      |     5 | 5 | pre delimiter len      | post delimiter|
| seq int     |     6 | 6 | count                  |               |
| seq varchar |     7 | 7 | seqVarchar array index | array len     |
| seq file    |     8 | 8 | seqFiles array index   | col of data   |
+-------------+-------+---+------------------------+---------------+
```

**9** `timestamp`<br />
**10** `,` <br />
**11** `hexValue` <br />
**12** `email`<br />
**13** `bool`

### csvFile

A wrapper class that contains all lines of a csv fil but only stores the specified columns

#### Methods

##### csvFile(String path/to/file, int columns[])

a contructor class that loads the data of all specified columns into an arrayList for later usage.

##### getRandom(int _column_)

returns a random random line of data frm the specified column.
